Any important, any famous people through SCONA?
No. Who were the, do you remember some of the
speakers? No, I just remember they were
congressmen or senators, but I don't remember who
they were. Because somewhere about that time,
Senator Albert Gore of Tennessee came, I remember
that. Could very well be. about that time, and I
remember he was very pleasant and personable and
so forth. I just attended the evening programs
where they had speakers and things like that. Did
you become involved as a SCONA worker or anything?
No.
And you, would you and your buddies go over and hang
out a little bit in the MSC? Yes. There wasn't a lot
of time though. The day was pretty well taken up.
And like you said earlier, you took a lot more
hours. And so you were in class a good deal today, or
labs. And the science courses you were taking,
every one of them had a four-hour lab. Guyen Hall,
did you remember going to any movies or activities
in Guyen Hall? Yes. Describe what went on during a
movie when Aggies were in the audience in Guyen
Hall. Well, if there was any slight mention of sex
or anything like that, they kind of would whoop and
carry on like, you know, banjis and things like
that. Because they used to be, the campus theater
used to have the Friday night groads, groad flex
they were called. Oh, I don't know what to describe
that. Well, there was a series of films that
showed. It was called Mr. Peepers, as I remember.
And just for all of these women wearing bikinis and
other things like that. I mean, nudity to the
degree it's allowed today wasn't allowed. And
they were just walking around doing things. And so
you were going and watching, you know, skint,
partially clad women. And they were called the
Grove Flex. And it was, they were never officially
announced. It was just kind of word got out that
Friday night at the campus theater was Grove Flex
were going on. And I remember old Schumann would
stand out there. He just took a dollar from
everybody coming in the door, you know. Were these
late? Oh yeah, they started like 11, 12 o'clock at
night. And it would be filled with an all-meal? Oh
yeah. And what noises were made during the flicks?
Animals.
And lots of whooping and carrying on and stuff like
that, yeah. Did anybody take drinks in there? Not
that I'm not an alcoholic, not that I know of. You
probably wouldn't have got away with that. They
were going to sell you a Coke. That was part of the
reason for the movie is that you can sell popcorn,
you know.
And let's see, religious activities. Did you take
part in any? Yeah, at St. Mary's, you know, the...
Describe that, because we don't, I don't know much
about what was the... Well, you know, you were
still in that age where you went to church every
Sunday, and you'd go to church over there, and
then, you know, maybe some involvement, once
again, with the Newman Club, the Catholic student
organization. They would have some maybe social
activities afterwards or dances, and like I said,
that's where I met this girl from Houston who, she
was a, you know, I came from a very large family with
children, There were seven boys and two girls in
the family. Her family was like seven girls and two
boys. And so it was, I don't know, that's... Was
there a Sunday night event? No. When did Newman
Club meet? Well, maybe there were some evening
things, yeah. But I guess it was evening. Yeah.
During the weekdays, could you go over there to
kind of escape from the corps? Well, I didn't. You
didn't? Yeah. There may have been some of that. Was
there a campus, a Catholic chaplain kind of
somebody that you all would go to? Occasionally,
yeah, and he used to figure I would come around and
visit people in the dorm room. Oh, he would? Well,
the priest would, yeah. Oh, really? I didn't...
Well, we're talking about, you know, six, seven
thousand students at A&M in total, you know,
graduate and everything, I think, probably not
much more than that. And, yeah, you know, if he
became active in that, he would come by and
occasionally somebody I know would organize that
the priest was coming over and we'd get together in
a room and maybe he'd talk about things. As far as
you can recall, describe the A&M student body at
that time in terms of attitude, economics,
geographic background, ethnicity and so forth,
religious attitudes and so forth. Well, there are
no blacks, a few Hispanics, very few, primarily
Anglo, of course all male. I think it was a pretty
diverse group in a sense of economics. There was a
lot of, you know, some very wealthy kids and also
some very, you know, poor kids as well, you know.
Where were they from geographically? I think all
over the state, even then. Were there many out of
staters, out of country? Very few. As I recall,
there was one guy, Fish Yaskovic, from Yonkers,
New York. So we went out to one of these drinking in
the woods one night. I still remember Yaskovic got
out of the car and he looked up and he says, Jesus
Christ, you guys got a lot more stars in Texas than
we do in New York. Anyway,
very few out of state students. One kid, you know,
he came to A&M not, he wanted to be a veteran, you
know, and his family had been involved in a lot of
horse racing in Delaware, I believe. He was from
Delaware. And he came to A&M not knowing that it was
all male. Because he said, and he showed us, they
sent him these brochures. And they had pictures of
women that was, of course, taking social events or
summer school or some other time. And he didn't
know what he was getting into. The basic attitudes
of these students, liberal, conservative? I
don't know that, you know. that there was that much
politics discussed, quite frankly. There was an
anti-letting women in, and that sort of thing. And
the same sort of tunnel vision that even probably
more so, even a mild criticism would result in
someone suggesting that Highway 6 ran both
directions, you know, and if you don't like it, you
can leave. Of course, they were still saying that a
lot when I came back on the faculty. Were there any
Jewish kids, you remember? There may have been a
few, but
I'm not sure. Basically, were, was everybody
accepted by and large, was it an inclusive or an
exclusive group? Well, I think it was inclusive. I
think it probably still is in the sense that Aggies
pull together and that kind of thing. I know we had
one kid one time that went over to snook to the SPJST
hall and got into a fight and was arrested. He
fought a local boy, so they arrested him, not the
other guy that beat him up. And so we had to go get him
out of jail. And I finally got, you know, found out
where he was, and he said, well, you have to go see
the J.P. And so he takes us down to the J.P.'s house,
you know, and we have this hearing, and there's
this light hanging from a bulb, and the damn thing
is swinging back and forth. The police officer
explains what happened, you know, and the judge
says, guilty, you know. I mean, he doesn't even get
a chance to get, this guy wants to get back to bed.
And anyway, so many dollars, and everybody
pitches in. Bails this guy out so he doesn't have to
spend the night in jail.
Now did you guys on Saturdays go to Snoop to eat
kolaches? I didn't. The bakery I don't think was
there. If it was, I didn't know about it. I didn't
know about it by then, if it was. Later we would
discover it, of course. Yeah. You know, there was
this dance hall over there, and it was the SPJST,
the thing. And you would go over there and it was...
They had these bleachers along the sides of the
thing. And there would be these old Czech women
sitting in there. I guess they were sort of the
chaperones. And there might be some local girls
that would come out and dance. But they were
watched very closely by these. these elderly
women. And it was all, I call it the Winthorpe
shuffle, but it was really the Texas two-step. But
in Wichita Falls we were just too damn
sophisticated for that stuff, you know, and then
doing that kind of dance. We did the real dancing.
Anyway. The
other student organizations, how did you and your
buddies feel about the singing cadets and the
Aggie band and things like that? What prestige?
I don't know. I mean, everybody loved the band, you
know. They used to say, well, have a football team
the band can be proud of someday. And, of course,
the Ross Volunteers were considered a really
elite group that somebody got into that that, you
know. There was probably more competition for
that then than there is now by ten times. Was it a big
deal to be a yell leader then? Oh, yeah. Sure. What
was the sublime student leadership role? What do
you mean by that? If you could have had any student
leadership position, what would have been the one
that was most respected? Oh, company commander.
Or corps commander, I presume. Well, yeah, but the
really big deal was the company commander, more so
than I think it is today, that the guys that got to be
company commanders were the kind of, at least
within that group. Now, going to corps staff was
obviously a a very prestigious thing to happen to
you. And of course, you got picked your junior
year. Corps staff was picked in the junior year.
Were you and your buddies aware of elected student
body officers much? Well, yeah. You were marched
over as a company and told how to vote. Oh, really?
Oh, yeah. Had voting machines that were the old
lever. Only time I've ever seen them except when I
was in Maryland graduate school. You went in and
you were told how to vote and who to vote for. I think
they still do some of that. But the student body
president did not rank at all. Oh, no. Now, if you
were a student body president, yeah, I guess that
was an important position. I don't mean to say it
wasn't, but not as corps commander was God. Were
you aware in those days of any secret
fraternities? No. There may have been some, but I
wasn't aware of them. So far, I've only had one
person admit that he knew they existed. Well, I
literally don't know. They may have. But there's
some others that I know were members that I've
interviewed. There's a yearbook in 32 or
something that has the swastikas in the corner and
Wayne Stark. It goes way back before that. What was
this called? The stickers, the swastikas. And
they discovered that. You see, that was a Navajo
symbol. They discovered that long before the Nazi
Party had. Is that right? Yeah. I knew it was a novel
symbol. I think Mr. Evans was a sticker. Is that
right? The two that I know of were the TTs, the
something Texans. Tough Texans. True Texans.
True Texans. True Texans, yeah. And the
swastikas. And as far as I can determine, the only
purpose they had at all was to see that one of their
group was the corps commander and the head deal
leader. In other words, it was to get their little
clique. The local party. Yeah, it was a political
party. And there was nothing ulterior or
anything. Now, Harrington, he cracks down on
them. Is that right? Yeah, in the 50s, early 50s,
late 40s, and kicks two or three out of school
because they denied it. Well, if there was any of
that going on when I was a student, I was completely
unaware. But that's entirely possible, too.
Let's see.
There are no veterans coming back, so that's not an
appropriate question for me to ask you. You
mentioned that summer job. Did A&M help you get
that veterinary? No. I'd worked for them when I was
in high school originally. And then after your
second year, you have decided not to do veteran
medicine, and you go back to Midwestern for your
senior year? Yeah, and then I had another year
after that. Because I really got way behind, you
know.
Let's see, back to the community. How often did you
and your buddies go to Bryan? Oh, very seldom.
Because you didn't do much shopping. No. And did
you go down there to a movie? Yeah, occasionally to
the old Bryan Theater in downtown Bryan. Was there
any area of Bryan where supposedly something
illicit or extreme went on? If there was, I didn't
know about it. I've never heard any stories about
gambling. There was a place where they served
family-style meals. In fact, it was still going
when I came back. I forget the name. A big old
boarding house. Yeah, that thing. And they had
lots of home-cooked stuff, everything fried or
boiled, you know. And you go down there and for, I
don't know, $3 or $4, you could eat all you wanted. I
remember Linda and I, after we came back, I went
there a couple of times. It's still going. I don't
know what it is anymore. What about J.E. Lupo? Did
you meet him? Mm-hmm. Describe him and what kind of
guy he was. Well, I know I needed a slide rule
because I couldn't get through all these math and
problems and everything, and particularly the
long division and the time necessary to finish the
test. And I'd learned how to use a slide reel in high
school. And so I went over there to buy one. And I was
looking at what he had. And I didn't have enough
money to get any of them. And he said to me, what's
wrong with that? And I said, well, I just don't have
that much money. He said, well, how much can you
pay? And I told him, he said, sold. And his
daughter, who's a very good friend of mine now, her
husband did his master's thesis under me and
Artie.
She's bought the stores from her brother, and so I
see her all the time. She's really upset about all
this off-street parking stuff in Northgate now
and is down. She lives in Austin, but she's here two
or three days a week and has a house on Gilchrist
just down from me. So, you know, I told her that
story one time, and she said, yeah, the dad did that
a lot. Did you ever hear anything negative about
Lupo? Well, I think they used to say, old Army Lou,
he'll screw you. But did you ever hear of him
jipping anybody? No. I think it was just a catchy
phrase. And I heard him say a number of times that he
had never loaned a snaggy money, that he didn't get
it paid back. And I've never heard anybody else,
just like you, that if they were broke and needed a
book or a piece of equipment, he always helped
them. Pinky Downs. I don't know that I knew Pinky
when I was a student here. When I came back, and
maybe I did because I don't, but Pinky was still
hanging around, the official greeter. Describe
him in that role. What did he do and where and how?
Well, he hung around the MSC and greeted people and
talked about how great the Aggies were. And like
there's an old joke they would tell, he sees a
funeral as he's traveling along. And he stops and
gets out and goes over and stands there. And the
preacher says, well, does anybody have anything
they'd like to say about the deceased? nobody
speaks up so pinky down says in that case could i say
a few words about a m and i'm sure you've heard that
that uh apocryphal tale before but i always
thought he was sort of a joke quite frankly i mean
you like uh and he made a really big deal about being
this official greeter and his house which is right
over on the corner of yeah it's right there where uh
Anyway, I know where it is. But he had a sign out in
the front yard, Pinky Downs, official breeder of
A&M or something. And I learned not long ago that he
was a, then they called him directors, now we'd
call it regent, in the 20s, in the early 1920s. Is
that right? See, his family was in banking in
Temple. And I think during the Depression, I think
the bank collapsed. And I don't know whether it was
mismanagement or what. Did you, during your
student days, did you ever see Earl Rudder in any
way? I'm sure I probably saw him at ceremonies and
final review, you know. What did you and the
students think of him in those days? I think
everybody was pretty much afraid of him. I think he
was respected, you know.
What about Dean Hannigan, dean of students? I
don't think I had any encounters with Hannigan. I
got to know him when I was a faculty member. He
helped, you know, I got to know him when I first came
here. I started helping to get people to create the
Aggie Sailing Club, get that started. That's how I
got to know him. And then in 72, this is really
interesting in itself, is that he asked me to be a
chair of the Yell Eater and Bonfire Committee. And
I served from 72 to 76 as chair of that committee.
And this is the interesting part about it. He was
concerned about bonfire safety and a lot of the
horseplay and the stuff that was going on and the
drinking. And he said, the problem I have, he said,
we've had people that have been involved in my
office that have chaired that committee. And they
get too close to these students and they let them
get away with things. And what I want is a faculty
committee. He asked me to recommend some other
people to serve on it. And I want a faculty
committee that will have some independent
oversight of these kids. Well, I found out that was
almost impossible. to do. But you know how I
replaced the chair of the committee? Who? Malin
Sutherland. My, my. And Malin wasn't a faculty
member. No, he was a staff member. Yeah, yeah. But
that's why I say he went, Hannigan went from having
a committee dominated by the MSC student programs
office type people or the dean of students office
to a faculty committee. Do you know what Malin's,
what the students nicknamed him, he was a tech
officer, the nickname for him was the Slink. Yeah,
I can believe that. That he slinked around. But,
you know, he's really kind of taken on the same role
that Coldis had, which is that of a permissive
parent. And that's part of what went wrong with
Bonfire. And I'm amazed that he's going to be in
charge of the committee to restructure it.
Anyway,
but no, I thought I had a lot of respect for
Hannigan. He was a gruff, general type guy, but I
think he knew the score on Bonfire and he knew there
was a problem. And what's really interesting, you
know, what the problem If you read that report, the
red pot system is what was the corrupt influence in
Bonfire. Well, I resigned in 76 because Coldis
would override the committee recommendations.
We'd make some recommendations about things
about, one was the length of time they could work on
it. We tried to shorten the days you could work on
it. And it was concern about academic
considerations and other things. Coldis
overrode us. And that's when I resigned. And I
wrote him a letter. I can't find it. I threw it away.
or I gave it to maybe whoever left it with the
Bonfire Committee records. But I basically told
him that the Red Pot system was corrupt, and that
self-selection was going to get him in big trouble
down the road, and that the Bonfire Committee
ought to be the one that picked the Red Pot, the
all-eaters. Let's jump back. I'm sorry. No, no.
Did you jump work on Bonfire when you worked on
Bonfire? Oh, yeah. Describe that. Oh, that was a
great time. Where? You go out in the woods and cut
trees down. Where was the cutting area? I don't
know. Somewhere in Brazos County, but I couldn't
begin to tell you. And with what did you cut? Well,
we didn't cut anything. Juniors and seniors cut.
Freshmen and sophomores picked logs up and
carried them out of the woods and put them on trucks
or laid them down. And that's another thing is that
freshmen and sophomores didn't work on the stack
either. And that was true when I was chair of that
committee. And half the people that were killed or
injured were freshmen. And about how long did
y'all, did you work on? Well, a couple of days.
That's all? The two-day thing. Yeah, it wasn't the
length of time. Well, you look at those pictures
that are in the Bonfire Report. It's not the
gigantic, massive thing that it became, really,
in the 60s. Where was it held? This thing behind
Duncan. It was already behind Duncan. It was
already behind Duncan. A couple of days, and then,
let's see, no, the Kennedy interruption comes
after you're gone. Yeah, that's the year I'm gone.
And let's see, other, I'm trying to think, oh,
final review. You must have gone through final
review twice. What were your recollections of
that? Well, it's an emotional thing, you know,
particularly, you know, the ceremony of it, the
seniors leaving, you know, and the new guys
getting their boots on and marching around again.
So your second year, you're a junior who is not, do
you know that you're not going to come back your
senior year? So you didn't put on any senior boots.
Did you go through the second? Yeah, but I just
didn't have boots And
no family and special people came down to watch or
anything. Did you go to commencements? No, I don't
think we did. I don't recall ever going to a
commencement.
I remember the commissioning ceremonies. But
they were generally held in conjunction with
final review. People were given their . Were there
any important speakers that you remember that
came to the campus, whether it be for muster or
commissioning or any? If there were, I don't
remember. You don't remember? No great
celebrities? No. Did you go to muster? Oh, yeah.
Where was it held? As I recall, I think in the Grove.
What did you think about Muster? I don't know that I
had any great reflections of it at the time. I don't
think it was as big a deal then as it is now, at least
not here. I can't find it. It's not filling up Reed
Arena like it is now. I haven't found many people
that remember going to, knowing anything about
Muster until World War II. muster changes during
World War II. Is that right? Immediately after.
Bonfire goes from being trash to being logs, so
that society in many ways changed. I'm not saying
that's good or bad. The first one where you really
see where it's predominantly logs and you don't
see the trash is the year they made the movie We've
Never Been Licked. I think that's right. And they
needed it as a backdrop. You know, it plays a real
prominent role when the Japanese students are
breaking into the chemistry building, you know,
to steal Pop Langer's secret formula for flexible
steel. You know, think about it. Isn't that the
corniest damn movie
in the world? Let's see. Student indulgences. We
talked about alcohol. What were students smoking
then? Well, no, there wasn't any drug smoking
going on. If there was, it may have been some of
those Hispanic students from Mexico or South
Texas that did it, but Lord, I mean, you could go to
the state penitentiary for many years for smoking
marijuana. What did you and your, what lingo did
you know relative to drugs when you were an
undergraduate? I don't, you know, there wasn't
any, you know, drugs weren't a, I mean, hey, you
could buy amphetamines. We used to have
amphetamines. Had you heard the word heroin? Oh,
yeah. You had? Yeah. Well, I remember seeing
Reefer Madness in high school, you know, and just
being scared to death. And what, according to that
movie, what happened to people who smoked
marijuana? They just absolutely went insane,
jumped out of the windows and other things like
that. You know, I don't remember the movie having a
real lot of impact, but I remember when I was in
graduate school at Maryland, they used to show it
as a camp film, and then people would go down and
make fun of it and smoke marijuana. That was later
on, you know. But when I was an undergraduate, you
know, there... I don't know of anybody that had
marijuana or anything like that. Had you ever seen
marijuana? No. And certainly not heroin.
Smoking, what percentage you think of the
undergraduates smoked then? A large percentage
smoked cigarettes. What were the popular brands?
Winston,
Paul Maul, Lucky Strikes, I guess, Camels. If you
were really, really macho, you smoked Camels,
unfiltered Camels. And cigars? Some, but not
much. Pipes? Yeah. I think the pipes were kind of in
a tent to be a little more sophisticated. What
about faculty members? Did they smoke some? I
remember one guy in economics who smoked in class.
Who? I don't recall his name. I'm trying to
remember. He was in Nagel Hall. Everybody in
social science was, I guess, right? I certainly
remember faculty members who smoked in their
offices, so that was certainly true. Were there
any campus celebrities at that time, any people,
any student body? There weren't any great
athletes that everybody noticed in there or
anything, were there? No. What about Aggie
basketball? Did you go to the games? Did they play?
I don't remember ever going to the games. You
didn't go to G. Raleigh? I don't remember. Maybe I
did. I don't remember. Because, see, it was
packed. I might have to, you know, as a virgin. I
don't like basketball. I'm not a big basketball
fan. Right. Now, we're getting near the end of the
questions that I had thought of. What have we left
out that we should have covered? We haven't so far.
I don't know. We covered a lot. A lot of things I
never had thought about in years.
I can't think of anything. I see. Well, I should ask
an obvious question. Why did you not come back here
your senior year? Why did you go? Well, part of it
was that there was financial problems. My parents
felt that you weren't going to be a veterinarian.
That little place across the street was just fine.
And so there was no financial support to help from
them. Anyway. And for what I wanted to do, it was
probably a pretty good school. And I had been there
and knew people, so it wasn't like you were, I
thought maybe at some point you might
go back to A&M, but anyway. In fact, when I came back
as a faculty member, I never even considered it
until my dissertation advisor invited me over to
her house and I met Bill Gibbons. You remember
Bill, the first chair? He was a very impressive
guy. It had been pretty low on my list of places to
go. I hadn't thought about Bill Gibbons. I don't
know what happened to him. I don't either. So when
you left, you weren't leaving to get away from A&M?
To some degree, yeah. I think so.
I mean, some of the, it's sort of mixed feelings
about it, you know. There are aspects of it that,
you know, there's always somebody harassing your
butt, you know. Admittedly, senior year, that
wouldn't be as much. It'd just be the military
officers. But, you know, and it's not a real, it
wasn't a real pleasant place to be. I mean, you
know, there's all military, lots of marching. No
girls. I mean, what more could a guy ask for, you
know? Now, your second year you had a car. Yeah. How
often did you go back home? Oh, just at, you know,
Thanksgiving and Christmas. And Easter? Yeah.
Spring break? We didn't have spring break. We had
Easter. No, but, I mean, that's it. That's about
it. How often did you go anywhere else out of Brazos
County? Well, except for going maybe a court trip
or something, you didn't. There wasn't much time.